Welcome to the first part of the
ultimate HTML and CSS series. In this
series, I'm going to take you on a
journey and teach you all the skills you
need to build fast and beautiful
websites that look great on all kinds of
devices. I'm assuming you know nothing
about HTML or CSS and want to learn
everything from scratch. So, in the
first part of the series, we're going to
talk about the fundamentals of web
development with HTML and CSS. In the
second part, we'll explore the advanced
concepts. And in the third part, we'll
put everything together and build a
beautiful, responsive, and blazingly
fast website for an imaginary cloud
hosting company called Moshify. If you
want to play with this website, just
head over to moshify.com and see it for
yourself. This is what you're going to
build in this series.
I'm Mosh Hamedani, and I've taught
millions of people how to code or how to
become professional software engineers
through my coding school and YouTube
channel. If you're new here, be sure to
subscribe as we upload new videos all
the time. Now, let's jump in and get
started.
All right, let's talk about the tools
you need to take this course.
For the starter, you need a code editor.
There's so many code editors out there
like Visual Studio Code or VS Code,
Sublime Text, Atom, and so on.
In this course, I'm going to use VS Code
along with a few extensions for starting
a web server and formatting our code.
You're welcome to use your favorite code
editor if you know what you're doing,
but otherwise, head over to
code.visualstudio.com
and download the latest version of VS
Code.
Now, here inside VS Code, we're going to
install a couple of extensions.
So, let's open the extensions panel
and search for
Prettier.
Here's the extension we're going to
install, Prettier Code Formatter.
With this extension, we can format our
code and make it pretty. This is a very
popular extension. As you can see, it's
been downloaded more than 9 million
times. So, over here you're going to
have an install button. Just click it
and you're done.
Next, we're going to install another
extension called Live Server.
With this, we can launch our website
inside a development web server. Again,
this is a very popular extension. It's
been downloaded almost 8 million times.
Now, in addition to these, we're going
to use a browser to view and test our
web pages. Again, you can use your
favorite browser, but in this course,
I'm going to use Google Chrome and I
encourage you to use the same browser so
you can easily follow the course.
We're going to start our web development
journey here. In every section, you'll
learn something new about web
development and by the end of this
course, you will put all of this
together to build a beautiful web page.
In this section, we're going to talk
about the fundamentals of web
development. You'll learn the languages
and tools used in web development, as
well as the key concepts and vocabulary
such as URL, HTTP, DOM, and so on.
We're also going to talk about how
websites work, so you will understand
what exactly happens under the hood when
you use your browser to visit a website.
You will also learn how to inspect
network traffic using Chrome DevTools,
which is a very powerful tool used by
front-end developers.
We'll also talk about the basics of HTML
and CSS and validating web pages, which
is something a lot of developers miss.
This is going to be an awesome journey,
so let's jump in and get started.
This course is your first step towards
becoming a web developer. So, let me
give you a simple road map to know where
you are and where you should go next.
Every website has two parts, a front end
and a back end. The front end is the
part that you see in your browser and
interact with, all the visual aspects.
The back end is the part that powers the
front end. It's behind the scenes and
it's mainly about storing data in
databases and providing it to the front
end.
So, web development jobs fall into three
main categories. Front end development,
back end development, and full stack
development, which involves both front
end and back end development. Front end
developers use HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
to build front ends.
Back end developers have different sets
of tools available to them, which is
outside the scope of this course. So,
let's talk about HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript. HTML is short for HyperText
Markup Language. I know it's a mouthful,
but basically we use HTML to define the
building blocks of our web pages.
CSS is short for Cascading Style Sheet
and is used for styling web pages and
making them beautiful. JavaScript is
used for adding functionality to web
pages. Let me give you an analogy.
Think of a building. A building in the
real world is like a web page on the
internet. It has a skeleton or
structure.
It can have pretty walls, windows, and
tiles. And it can have certain
functionality. For example, when we
press the elevator button, it comes to
pick us up.
Here's a real example. Let's say you
want to build a website like Twitter.
For each tweet, we want to have a layout
like this. So, first we use HTML to
define all the building blocks of this
layout. What are these building blocks
here?
An image, some text indicating the
user's Twitter handle, another block of
text containing the message, and three
icons for commenting, retweeting, and
liking the tweet.
We use HTML to add these building blocks
to our web page. Then we use CSS to give
it visual effects. For example, with
CSS, we can make the font bold, we can
make our image round,
we can add some padding around here,
we can change the color of these icons
and define their look when we hover over
them.
So, CSS is all about aesthetics or
visual effects. With CSS, we can also
create beautiful animations. Now, most
web pages these days are interactive.
They respond to our actions like clicks
and scrolls. This is where JavaScript
comes in. With JavaScript, we can add
functionality or behavior to our web
pages. For example, we can like a tweet.
So, JavaScript is a programming
language, while HTML and CSS are not,
meaning we cannot use them to tell
computers what to do. We use them to
define the building blocks of our web
pages and style them. Every web page you
have seen on the internet is built with
these three languages. So, the better
you learn and understand these languages
and their features, the better you'll be
at front-end development.
So, your front-end development journey
starts with HTML and CSS. I would say,
if you spend 3 to 5 hours every day
studying and coding, you should be able
to have a reasonable understanding of
these two languages in about a month or
a month and a half. Once you learn these
languages, then you need to learn
JavaScript. I have a separate series for
learning JavaScript. So, after finishing
this series, you may want to enroll in
that series. I would say, learning
JavaScript would probably take another 6
weeks of your time. Of course, you're
not going to be a JavaScript expert in
just 6 weeks, but you'll have a
reasonable understanding of it, and you
will learn more as you work on different
projects.
So, the first 3 months is all about the
fundamentals.
Now, building websites often include a
bunch of repetitive tasks. This is where
front-end frameworks and libraries come
in. A framework or a library comes with
a lot of code that we can reuse in our
websites. So, they help us get the job
done faster.
That's why a lot of companies these days
use one of these popular frameworks like
React, Angular, or Vue.
Now, technically, React is not a
framework. It's a library. But, subtle
distinction aside, all these tools serve
the same purpose. They help us build
applications faster.
Now, you don't need to learn all of
these to get started. Different
companies use different tools for
different projects. So, as you move from
one project to another, you may want to
learn about the other
If you're starting out, just focus on
React because it's the most popular tool
in this space.
Once you learn React, you can always
learn the other tools if needed. For
React, you would probably need 1 to 2
months. Again, I have a comprehensive
course on React. More than 40,000 people
have taken this course and loved it.
All right, what's the next step? Version
control systems. We use a version
control system to keep track of our
project history and work collaboratively
with others. There are many version
control systems out there like Git,
Subversion, Mercurial, and so on. But,
Git is the most popular tool in this
space and is used in more than 70% of
software companies. That's why you'll
see it in almost every job description.
I would say you would probably need 2
weeks for learning Git. And again, I
have a comprehensive course for you. So,
these are the essential skills that
every front-end developer must have.
You'll see these listed on almost every
job description. Now, different jobs
require other skills, but these skills
vary from one company to another. So,
you can learn these additional things in
the future or on the job. For now, just
focus on these four skills or four
steps. Remember, less is more. Don't try
to learn too many things quickly. You
won't learn anything. You'll just waste
your time.
All right, that's your road map. Next,
we're going to talk about how the web
works.
Have you ever wondered how the web
works? In this lesson, I'm going to tell
you exactly what happens the moment you
type the address of a website into your
browser and hit enter.
As part of this, we're going to talk
about a few important concepts and terms
that you need to know as a web
developer. So, let's say we launch our
browser and head over to a website like
codewithmosh.com.
Now, this address that we have in the
browser address bar is called a URL,
which for uniform resource locator.
Basically, it's a way to locate a
resource on the internet. Resources can
be web pages, also called HTML
documents. They can be images, video
files, fonts, and so on.
So, we type the URL of a website and hit
enter. What happens now? Well, there are
two pieces involved here. The browser,
also called the client, and the computer
or computers that host our target
website. We refer to these as web
servers or servers for short. This is
what we call the client-server model.
The client requests a service, the
server provides the service.
So, our browser sends a message to the
server and says, "Hey, give me the home
page of this website." This is kind of
similar to how you send your friend a
text message. You can think of your
phone as the client sending the message,
and your friend's phone as the server
receiving the message. Now, back to our
example. This message is formatted based
on a protocol called HTTP or Hypertext
Transfer Protocol. You've probably
noticed it before, but never knew what
it is. In simple terms, HTTP is a
language that clients and servers use to
talk to each other. It's not a
programming language, it's just a plain
textual language for communicating over
the internet. You also have HTTPS, which
is HTTP with encryption. So, the
messages exchanged between the client
and the server are encrypted. Here's a
simplified example of an HTTP message.
With this message, the browser tells the
server what it's looking for.
So, on the first line, it says that it
wants to get a page or a file called
index.html
using HTTP version 1.1. Index.html often
represents the home page of websites. On
the second line, we can see the host,
that is codewithmosh.com. And on the
third line, we can see the language that
the client can accept, in this case,
English.
Now, don't worry about memorizing any of
this. All I want you to understand here
is that this message is structured based
on the HTTP protocol that clients and
servers understand. So, the server
receives this message, it figures out
what the client is asking, and then it
will send a message back to the client.
The first message is called an HTTP
request, and the second message is
called an HTTP response. Every data
exchange using the HTTP protocol
involves two messages, a request and a
response.
Now, what is in the response? Here's a
simplified example.
On the first line, we see the version of
HTTP protocol used, followed by a
number, which is the status code.
200 means successful or okay.
Right below that, we can see the date
and time of the response.
Next, we can see the type of content the
server is sending back to the client, in
this case, text/html.
And after that, we can see the HTML code
or the HTML document that represents the
home page of codewithmosh.com.
Of course, the actual HTML code is way
longer. Now, as the browser reads this
HTML document, it constructs what we
call a DOM or a document object model.
Don't let this fancy name scare you.
This is a model that represents the
objects or elements in our HTML
document. What are these elements? All
the building blocks of our page, like
paragraphs of text, images, links, and
other stuff. You will see this in action
in the next lesson.
Now, as the browser is reading this HTML
document that is returned from the
server, it discovers references to other
resources in this document like images,
fonts, and other stuff. Each of these
resources has an address or a URL. So,
for each resource, the browser sends a
separate HTTP request to the server to
fetch that resource. Many of these HTTP
requests are sent in parallel, so we can
see the page as quickly as possible.
Once the browser has all the necessary
resources, it will render the HTML
document. Rendering an HTML document
means displaying it. It's a fancy
technical term we use often. So, in a
nutshell, our browser sends an HTTP
request to the server and receives an
HTTP response. This HTTP response
contains an HTML document. The browser
reads that HTML document to construct a
document object model and render the
page.
In the next lesson, I'm going to show
you all of these steps in action.
All right, let's see HTTP requests and
responses in action.
So, open up Chrome and head over to
google.com. Now, we need to access
Chrome DevTools. This is a very powerful
tool used by front-end developers. So,
on the top, we go to view,
developer,
developer tools. Now, look at the
shortcut. On Mac, it's alt or option,
command, and I. On Windows, it's
obviously different, but remember the
shortcut because it's much faster to
access the DevTools via the keyboard.
So,
here's the DevTools. The first time you
see it, it might appear a bit
intimidating, but trust me, it's much
easier than you think. Throughout the
course, you're going to learn more about
the DevTools. So, here we have a few
different tabs, elements, console,
sources, network, and so on. In this
demo, we're going to go to the network
tab so we can inspect the network
traffic to and from google.com.
Now, by default, DevTools is docked to
the bottom of the screen. We can dock it
to the left, to the right, or undock it
as a separate window. So, over here,
we can dock it to the left side.
A lot of front-end developers like this
layout, so they put DevTools on the left
side, and they have their website on the
right side. Now, in this demo, I'm going
to undock it as a separate window, so we
have more space to work with.
So, let's undock it.
Good.
Now, we need to refresh our website. As
you can see over here, on Mac, we can
press command and R. On Windows, it's
probably control and R.
Alternatively,
we can go back to this window and press
the refresh button.
Now,
back to the DevTools, look at all these
items over here. These are the HTTP
requests that are sent from our browser
to google.com.
As you can see,
they're totally
45 requests, and here's the amount of
data transferred over the network. So,
in this case, just over 94 KB.
Now, look at the first item in this
list. This is the first HTTP request
that Chrome sent to google.com.
As you can see,
with this request, the browser wanted to
get a document, and the status of this
request is 200, which means okay. Over
here, you can see the amount of data
transferred over the network for this
request, and the time it took to get the
response. Now, if we click on this
request,
we can see more details about it. So,
here on the headers tab, we can see all
the headers of our request and response.
So, here are some general headers, like
request URL, request method, which is
get, status code, that is 200, we talked
about it, remote address, this is the
numeric representation of google.com.
Now, down below, we have response
headers. There are so many headers here
you don't have to worry about them, but
as an example, look at content type. We
talked about this in the previous
lesson. So, the type of this response is
text/html.
Below that, we have the date and time of
the response.
Now, if you click on the preview tab,
we can see a preview of the HTML
document that is returned from the
server. So, this is the homepage of
Google.
Now, in this HTML document, we have
references to other resources like
images, fonts, and so on. So, all these
subsequent requests are sent to download
those resources. So, right below the
first request, we have a request for
downloading a PNG or an image file.
Here's another request for getting
another image. We have two requests for
getting two different fonts, and so on.
Now, we can easily filter this list. So,
let's click on the filter icon here. By
default, we see all requests, but we can
filter by request type. For example, we
can select doc to see requests for
downloading HTML documents, or font to
see the request that were sent to
download fonts, and so on.
Next, I'm going to show you how to
create your first HTML document.
All right, first things first. Here on
your desktop or anywhere on your
computer, right-click and create a new
folder.
I'm going to call this HTML, but we
could call it anything.
Now, let's go back to VS Code
and open the explorer panel.
Then, we go to open folder
and open the folder that we just
created.
Good. Now, this folder is currently
empty, so let's add a new file here
called index.html.
As I told you before, index.html often
represents the homepage of websites.
So, let's go with that.
Now, we can close the Explorer panel by
pressing command and B on Mac or control
and B on Windows.
Good?
Now, the first thing we need to do here
is to tell the browser that this is an
HTML5 document. So, we type a left angle
bracket.
Now, look at this suggestion list. The
first item here is doctype or document
type. Let's press enter or tab.
VS Code generated this piece of code for
us.
So, with this line of code, we can tell
browsers that this is an HTML5 document.
This line of code here is called doctype
declaration. In the previous versions of
HTML, our doctype declaration was so
long, it was so messy, but HTML5 solved
this problem. So, all we have to type is
doctype HTML. And by the way, HTML is
not a case-sensitive language, which
means it's not sensitive to uppercase
and lowercase letters. But,
conventionally speaking, we type
everything in lowercase except doctype.
This is just a convention. We could type
this in lowercase, and that's perfectly
fine.
So, let's revert it back.
Now, right after this, we need to use
our HTML elements to define the
structure of this webpage.
The first element we're going to use is
the HTML element. So, we type HTML and
then press tab or enter.
Once again, VS Code generated this piece
of code for us.
So, what we have here on the left side
is called the opening tag, and what we
have on the right side is the closing
tag. So, most HTML elements have an
opening and a closing tag, but there are
exceptions, as I'm going to show you
later in this video.
Now, inside this element, we're going to
add additional elements. Now, because I
don't want to type everything in one
line, I'm going to press enter.
That's better. Now, here we're going to
add two elements, head and body. So,
once again, we type head, press tab.
Good. And then, body.
We use the head element to give browser
information about this page. For
example, here we can use the title
element
to specify the title of this page that
appears in the browser over here. So,
let's type my first web page. Now, let's
save the changes by pressing command and
S on Mac or control and S on Windows.
Good. Now, before going any further,
let's right-click somewhere
and go to open with live server. So,
we're going to open this page using the
development server that we just
installed.
Okay?
All right, take a look. So, our page is
currently empty because we haven't added
any elements inside this page. And over
here, we can see the title that we just
typed, my first web page. Now, look at
the URL or address of this page. We have
127.0.0.1.
This number or this IP address
represents the local computer. It's
globally known, so everybody knows
127.0.0.1
references the current computer. After
that, we have a colon.
And then we have the port number on
which our web server is listening. So,
our web server is waiting for HTTP
requests on this port. Okay? Then we
have a forward slash followed by the
name of our file, index.html.
Now, back to VS Code,
inside the body element, we're going to
add elements that would appear on our
page. So, let's say we want to display a
tweet. What elements do we need here? An
image and some text elements. So, we
type img, short for image, and then
press tab.
Here's our image element. Now, this
image element is different from the
other elements we have created so far.
Can you tell the differences?
There are two differences here. The
first difference is that here we don't
have a closing tag. We only have an
opening tag because the image element
cannot have any child elements. That's
the reason. Now, in the previous
versions of HTML, we used to add a
forward slash here, and this represents
a self-closing tag. But we don't have to
do this in HTML 5, so I'm going to keep
the code simpler.
Now, here we have two attributes, source
and alt. With these attributes, we can
supply additional information about an
element. So, we use the source element
to specify the path to our image.
So, let's open up the explorer panel one
more time by pressing command and B on
Mac or control and B on Windows.
Here, I'm going to create a new folder
called images.
Now, for this demo, I'm going to use my
own image, which you can also download
right below this video, but you can use
any image that you want.
So, here's my image. I'm going to drop
it
onto the images folder.
It's right here, okay?
Now, let's close this window.
Good. So, where is this image relative
to our index.html file?
It's inside the images folder, right?
So, here in double quotes, we type
images/mosh.jpg.
Now, VS Code is suggesting this name, so
we can press tab to complete the code.
Beautiful.
Now, alt is short for alternative text,
and we use this attribute to give the
browser some text to display in case the
image cannot be displayed. We'll talk
about this in more detail in the future.
So, for now, I'm going to delete this
attribute.
Good.
Now, after the image, we're going to add
a text element. So, we type P, that is
short for paragraph, tab. And here we
can type my Twitter handle. So,
@moshhamedani.
After that, we're going to add another
text element,
and here we can type the body of our
tweet. So,
I love to teach you HTML. Perfect. Save
the changes.
Now, back in the browser,
our page refreshed automatically. This
is one of the beauties of live server.
So, we don't have to manually refresh
the page every time we make changes.
Now, look at what we have here. So, we
have my image and right below that, we
have two text elements. Take a look.
Unfortunately, they're not very visible.
Obviously, this doesn't look like a
tweet because we haven't applied CSS
yet. As I told you before, we use HTML
to define the structure or the building
block of our web pages. In the next
lesson, I'm going to show you how to
apply CSS so our page looks kind of like
a real tweet.
All right. Now, let's see how we can use
CSS to improve the look and feel of this
page.
Look at our head element. Currently, we
have a single element inside the head
element. That is our title element,
right? Now, after the title, we're going
to add another element called style.
This is where we're going to write our
CSS code.
So, in between style tags, we're going
to write a bunch of CSS rules. First,
we're going to work on this image. Our
image is currently too big. So, let's
make it a bit smaller.
Back to VS Code,
over here,
we're going to type img to reference our
image element. Then, we type a pair of
curly braces.
And inside the braces, we write one or
more CSS declarations. Each declaration
contains a property and a value. So,
here we can set the width property to,
let's say, 100 pixels.
So, we type the property, colon, and
then the value. And then we terminate
this line using a semicolon so we can
write multiple CSS declarations.
Now, let's save the changes.
Back in the browser, our image looks
smaller. a lot better.
But look at the edges. The edges are so
sharp. I would like to make them a bit
round so they appear softer. Now, back
to our rule.
Here we're going to set the
border-radius
property to let's say 10 pixels.
Now, don't worry about memorizing any of
these properties. We're going to go over
them several times throughout the
course. In this lesson, I just want you
to get a sense of what it's like to use
CSS. Okay?
So, save the changes.
Now, look. The edges are round and look
softer.
Now, let me show you a trick.
If we set border radius to a value that
is half of the width, we will get a
round image. So, I'm going to set this
to 50 pixels.
And here's the result. That's a lot
better.
Now, our elements are stacked
vertically. I want the image to be
pushed to the left side. So,
let's set the float property to left.
This will push the image element to the
left side of our text elements. Take a
look.
So,
that's a lot better, but our image is so
close to the text. I want to add some
space after the image. So,
here we use another property called
margin-right.
We can set it to 10 pixels. Save and
that's a lot better.
Now, let's make the username bold. So,
we're going to repeat one more time.
This time we're going to apply a rule
to our paragraph element.
So, here we're going to set the
font-weight
property to bold.
Take a look.
See what happened? Both our text
elements are bold. But what if you want
to apply this style only to the
username?
Well, we have to separate these two
paragraph elements. So, I'm going to
give the first paragraph element an
attribute called class. So, class equals
double quotes.
Class is short for classification and we
can use this attribute to put this
element inside a different class or a
different category, just like the
products in a supermarket. In a
supermarket, we have products in
different categories, right?
So, I'm going to put this paragraph
element inside a class or inside a
category called username.
And then,
I'm going to change this rule.
So,
this rule is currently applied to all
paragraph elements, but I want it to be
applied only to paragraph elements with
a username class. So, right after P, we
type  username.
Now, we can also remove P,
and this rule will apply to all elements
that have the username class, whether
they're paragraph elements or other
types of elements, okay?
Now, save the changes
and take a look. So,
that's a lot better.
So, this is CSS in action. As you can
see, CSS has a different syntax or a
different grammar than HTML. Throughout
the rest of the course, you're going to
learn both these languages in detail.
Next, I'm going to show you how to
format your code using Prettier.
Hey guys, Mosh here. I just wanted to
let you know that this video you've been
watching is the first hour of my
ultimate HTML and CSS series. So, after
you watch this video, if you want to
learn more from me, you can enroll in
the full course, which is about 13 hours
long and covers everything you need to
know to build professional quality
websites with HTML and CSS. It also
includes summary notes, exercises, a
real project, a certificate of
completion you can add to your resume,
and a 30-day money-back guarantee to get
a refund if you're not satisfied. So,
you have nothing to lose and a lot to
learn. So, if you're interested, I put
the link in the description box.
One thing you need to know about
browsers is that they ignore white
spaces in HTML and CSS code. For
example, I can put all these elements on
a single line
and everything still works. Let me show
you. So, save the changes.
Back in the browser, we have the same
result as before. Because browsers don't
care how we format our code. But
formatting is very important when it
comes to reading and maintaining code.
We want our code to be beautiful and
perfectly formatted just like an
article. This is where we use the
Prettier plugin. With Prettier, we can
format our code in a consistent fashion.
This is super important when you're part
of a team because different people have
different ways of formatting their code.
But if everyone on the team uses the
Prettier plugin, the code will be
consistently formatted. So, let me show
you how to use Prettier.
On the top, we go to the view menu.
Look at the shortcut for the command
palette. On a Mac, it's shift, command,
and P. On Windows, it's probably shift,
control, and P.
So, let's bring up the command palette.
And here we search for format document.
Now, we press enter.
We get this message saying there are
multiple formatters for HTML files.
Select the default formatter to
continue. The reason we're getting this
message is that VS Code, by default,
comes with a formatter for formatting
HTML files. But we have installed
Prettier, which is a separate formatter.
So, let's go to configure
and tell VS Code to use Prettier
to format HTML and CSS files.
Okay. Now, Prettier formatted my code.
So, none of those elements are on the
same line. This is a lot better. But let
me show you a trick. We don't want to
format our code every time we make a
change. So, we can configure VS Code to
automatically format the code the moment
we save the changes.
So, on the top, let's go to the code
menu, then preferences, and settings.
And here, search for format on save.
Here's the setting. Let's enable this
setting.
Now, every time we save the changes, VS
Code automatically formats our code
using Prettier.
Earlier, we talked about the DOM or
document object model. I told you that
when the browser reads the HTML document
that is returned from the server, it
constructs a document object model. Now,
let me show you this document object
model in action.
So, once again, we're going to use
Chrome DevTools. The shortcut on Mac is
shift, command, and I. On Windows, it's
probably shift, control, and I. I'm not
really sure.
So, let's open up DevTools.
Now, in this lesson, we're going to look
at the elements tab.
Now, what we have here on the left side
is our document object model. So, we see
the same elements that we created
earlier in the course. We have the HTML
element, head, body, and so on. But, we
have some additional elements that are
injected by Live Server. For example, we
have the script element and two divs.
Don't worry about these. These are
purely used by Live Server, so it
automatically reloads our page. Now, we
can hover over any of these elements,
and you can see that element highlighted
on the screen. Now, we can click an
element,
and on the right side, we can see the
styles applied to this element. So, look
at the styles we defined for the image
element.
Width, border radius, and so on. We can
enable or disable these styles. So, we
can disable the width property, and now
our image is big.
We can bring it back. We can also change
its value. So, we can set it to, let's
say, 50 pixels.
Now, our image is smaller. We can use
the up and down arrows
to change this value. This is pretty
handy. So, a lot of front-end developers
use DevTools to play with these styles
and get the look they want. Once they
figure out the exact styles and their
values, then they apply them in the
code.
Now, one more thing.
Over here,
you can see where these styles have been
applied. So, in index.html on line six,
we can click on this link, and this
takes us to the exact line of code where
we wrote that style.
Now, we're currently on the Sources tab,
so we can go back to Elements and
inspect other elements.
So, this is the basics of inspecting
elements using DevTools. We're going to
talk about this in more detail in the
future.
The last thing we're going to cover in
this section is validation.
So, as we write code, we may run into
problems. If we have a typo in our code
or don't use the right syntax or
grammar, our web pages may not look as
expected. In these situations, we can
use a validator to identify the
potential errors in our code.
Like currently, we don't have any
problems on this web page. It looks
perfectly fine to me, but let's run it
by the standard HTML validator. So, we
go to validator.w3.org.
This is a standard markup validation
service. We have three methods for
validating our HTML markup. We can
validate by an address if our website is
live on the internet, but this doesn't
work for us because our website is
currently hosted locally in our
development server.
So, this IP address that we have over
here, 127.0.0.1,
this is a local IP address. So, no one
else can access our website.
So, here we have two other methods. We
can validate by file upload or by direct
input. In this case, I'm going to go
with file upload.
So, let's upload our index.html file and
check.
So, look. We have one warning and two
errors.
The warning is saying that we haven't
added the lang or language attribute to
the HTML start tag. This is a common
best practice because with this we can
tell search engines what is the language
of this web page, so they can do a
better job at displaying the results.
This is very easy to fix. So, here's our
HTML tag. We're going to add the lang
attribute and set it to en, which is
short for English.
Now, what is next?
We have an error saying the character
encoding was not declared. Don't worry
about this, we'll talk about this in the
next section.
So, let's look at the second error.
It's saying that an image element must
have an alt attribute. So, earlier we
had this alt attribute, I told you that
we use the alt attribute to provide a
description for our image.
So, if the image cannot be displayed,
the alternative text will be displayed.
Again, we're going to talk about the alt
attribute in more detail in the future.
So, back to our code. Let's fix this
error real quick. Here's our image tag.
Let's add the alt attribute and for the
description I'm going to say an image of
Mosh Hamedani.
Now, save the changes.
Let's re-upload the file
and validate it one more time.
Okay. This time we have only a single
error and that has to do with character
encoding, which we're going to talk
about in the next section.
So, this is all about HTML validation.
Now, for CSS, we have a different
validator.
So, we go to jigsaw
.w3.org/css-validator.
Now, you don't have to memorize this
address, simply go to Google and search
for CSS validator.
Here's the first link.
So,
we have the same interface, we can
validate our CSS code using an address
or by file upload or direct input.
Now, in this case, we have embedded all
of our CSS code inside our HTML markup.
But, as our web pages get more complex,
we want to separate our CSS code into
separate files so our code is better
organized. We'll talk about this in more
detail in the future. So, for now,
I'm going to copy
all of our CSS code
and then go to the third tab,
paste it over here, and validate it.
So, we don't have any errors.
Everything's perfect.
So, this is all about validation.
Validation is very important if your web
pages aren't displayed as expected.
Always start with a quick validation
because this can often point you in the
right direction.
Right, that brings us to the end of this
section. In the next section, we're
going to explore HTML in more detail.
We're going to continue our web
development journey and explore HTML in
more detail. So, in this section, we're
going to cover the essential HTML
elements you need to know to build web
pages.
You will learn all the elements used for
displaying text, links, images, lists,
tables, as well as container and
structural or semantic elements. Even if
you know the basics of HTML, I would
still encourage you to watch this
section thoroughly because a lot of
people don't use these elements the
right way. So, let's jump in and get
started.
Earlier in the course, I told you that
we use the head section to give browsers
and search engines information about the
web page. So, let's explore it in a bit
more detail.
I'm going to start with a blank
document. Now, let me show you a cool
trick.
If we type an exclamation mark and then
press tab,
we get a basic HTML boilerplate, which
means a basic HTML template.
So, on the top, we have our doctype
declaration.
Below that, we have our HTML element
with the lang attribute, which is a
common best practice.
Next we have our head section with a
bunch of elements we're going to talk
about in a second,
followed by the body section. So, this
is a very basic HTML boilerplate.
Now, what do we have in the head
section? Well,
we have a couple of meta elements for
giving information about this web page.
The first meta element is for defining
the character set. What is a character
set? Well,
computers don't understand characters
like A, B, C, and so on. They only
understand numbers, which are
represented in the binary format, zeros
and ones. So, using a character set, we
can map a character to a numeric value.
The first character set that was
designed was the ASCII character set,
which is short for American Standard
Code for Information Interchange. ASCII
can only represent the characters in the
English language, so it's very limited.
So, over here different character sets
have been created to represent more
characters in international languages.
The character set that we use most of
the time these days is UTF-8, which can
represent almost all characters in the
world.
So, back to our code. With this meta
element, we're defining the character
set used in this HTML document, okay?
Now, below that we have a meta element
for configuring the viewport.
The viewport is the visible area of a
web page. So, it is this area over here.
Obviously, on a mobile device or on a
tablet, our viewport is smaller. But
here on desktop, we can change the size
of the viewport by resizing the browser.
So now, our viewport is smaller, okay?
Now, back to our code.
With this element, we're defining the
initial width
and zoom factor
for the viewport.
We'll talk about this in more detail in
the future. For now, all I want you to
know is that we need this element so our
web pages look good on all devices,
mobiles, tablets, and desktop computers.
So, as a best practice, every web page
should have at least these two meta
elements. But, we have additional meta
elements. Let me show you. So, if you
type meta,
in this list, you can see all possible
meta elements. For example, we have this
element for defining keywords on a web
page. So, let's select this.
Here we can type multiple keywords like
HTML,  CSS, and so on.
In the past, these keywords were heavily
used for search engine optimization, but
these days, most search engines don't
put too much weight on these keywords.
But, we can still use them to define the
keywords that represent this page.
We have another meta element for
defining a description for this page.
So, if you type meta  desk, and
then press tab or enter,
here we can type a description for this
page.
What we type here will appear on Google
or other search engines when someone
searches for our website. For example,
if you search for Apple, here's what we
get. Now, look at this text.
What you see here
comes from this element over here.
So, this is the purpose of meta
elements. With these meta elements, we
can give information about a web page.
All right, next we're going to talk
about the elements you need to know for
working with text.
All right, now let's talk about the most
common elements for working with text.
So, you learn about the P or paragraph
element, which we use for displaying
some text.
So, here I'm going to say, I love to
teach you HTML.
Now, sometimes we want to emphasize a
part of our text. Let's say, the HTML
word here.
To do that, we can wrap it inside an M
or emphasis element. So, here I type M,
press tab. Here's the emphasis element.
Let's hover over it and see what the
tooltips says.
It says the em element represents stress
emphasis of its content. So, whenever we
want to emphasize some content, we can
wrap it inside the em element. So, in
this case, I'm going to move HTML inside
these tags.
Now, let's save the changes.
Here's what we get. So, by default,
browsers display emphasized content in
italic. But, don't assume that whenever
you want to display italic content, you
should use the em element. Because the
purpose of the em element is to
emphasize content in our HTML document.
And this helps search engines extract
important content in our documents.
Anything to do with styling should be
done in CSS. For example, here we can
change the default style of emphasized
elements and remove the italic. Let me
show you. So, in the head section,
we add the style element.
And here we define a rule for emphasized
content.
We can set the color to red
and font style
to normal.
Now, don't worry about memorizing any of
these CSS properties. We're going to go
over them multiple times throughout the
course.
But, let's see what happens now that we
apply these styles.
So, our emphasized content is displayed
in red and it's no longer italic.
Now, in the past we had an element
called i,
which was short for italic.
If you use this element,
we get the same result as before.
Our content is displayed in italic.
But, this element is considered
deprecated because HTML is not meant for
styling. It should only be used for
structuring content. So, don't use the i
element to display content as italic,
okay?
Now, we have a similar element in HTML
called strong.
Let's hover over it and see
what the tooltips says.
The strong element represents strong
importance, seriousness, or urgency of
its contents. Conceptually, it's kind of
similar to the emphasis element. So,
where you should use it really depends
on your context on your content. Now,
let's save the changes and see what we
get.
So, by default, strong elements are
displayed as bold. But once again, we
can always change the styling.
Now, in the past, we had another element
called B,
which is short for bold. So, whenever we
wanted to make something bold, we use
this element. But once again, this
element is considered deprecated because
styling should be done in CSS and not in
HTML, okay?
So, don't use B or I elements.
Now, I'm going to remove
this element and just add HTML. Let me
show you a cool trick. Let's say we want
to wrap this word with the M element.
There is a shortcut for it.
So, on the top, we go to the view menu.
Look at the shortcut for the command
palette. On Mac, it's shift, command,
and P. And on Windows, it's probably
shift, control, and P.
So, let's select HTML
and then bring up the command palette.
With this command palette, we can
execute commands in VS Code. So, here
I'm going to search for a command called
wrap with abbreviation. That is the
first command on the list.
Now, we press enter, and here we type
the element that we want to use to wrap
our selected content. In this case, M.
Press enter. Done.
So, I didn't have to manually create an
M element and then move HTML inside it.
It's very handy.
So, this is all about text. Now, let's
talk about headings.
So, in HTML, we have six heading
elements. H1,
we have H2,
H3,
H4,
H5,
and H6.
So, let's see what we get.
So,
heading one represents the most
important heading,
and heading six represents the least
important heading.
Now, what common mistake that I see
amongst a lot of people is that they
choose these headings based on their
size. So, if they want to have a heading
with this size, they would just use
heading four. That is not how you're
supposed to use headings because the
size can always be changed with CSS.
It's a matter of styling. We should use
these headings to create a hierarchy.
So, every webpage should have one and
only one H1 element. This heading
represents what this page is all about.
Now, nothing happens if you have
multiple H1 elements. For example,
I can duplicate this line and say
heading one plus.
Now, look. We have two H1 elements, but
this is going to confuse search engines.
They're not going to figure out what
this page is really all about. So, every
page should have a single
H1 element. So,
I'm going to remove this line.
Now, after we use H1, then we should use
H2. We should not jump to H4.
So, let's say on this page we're going
to have two sections. One for HTML, the
other for CSS.
So, my next heading should be H2.
And here we can type HTML.
Obviously, below this heading we can
have some text. So, I'm going to say
HTML tutorial.
Our next heading should be H2. So,
this is the CSS section.
And in this section we can have some
additional text.
Let's say CSS tutorial.
Now, I'm going to delete
these four headings.
So,
let's take a look.
So, we have a hierarchy. On the top we
have an H1 element. Below that we have
two H2 elements. Now, let's say in this
section we're going to have two
subsections. There we should use H3
elements.
So,
here's our HTML section.
In this section we're going to have two
H3 elements. Let's say code
and exercise.
Now, take a look.
So, we have a hierarchy. This is how we
should use these heading elements. The
better we can represent the structure of
our document using HTML, the better
search engines can read and understand
our content.
So, that's all about text. Next, we're
going to talk about displaying special
characters in HTML.
Some characters are reserved in HTML and
to display them, we have to use a
special notation.
For example, let's say we want to wrap
the word HTML with angle brackets. See
what's going to happen. So, I type a
left angle bracket and a right angle
bracket. See what happened? VS Code
thought we're adding an HTML element, so
it automatically generated the closing
tag. We don't want this, so let's delete
it.
Now, back in the browser.
Look, where's our HTML word? It's not
here because the browser interpreted
this as an HTML tag. This is not what we
want. We want to display this exactly as
is.
So, to solve this problem, we're going
to use HTML entities.
All these entities start with an
ampersand and end with a semicolon. In
between these two characters, we type a
few characters that determine the type
of the HTML entity.
So, we have an entity for displaying the
less than sign.
That is LT, short for less than.
Now, let's remove this.
Similarly, we have another HTML entity
for displaying the greater than sign.
So, we type an ampersand GT, which is
short for greater than, followed by a
semicolon.
Now, back to the browser. That's exactly
what we wanted. Perfect.
Another common HTML entity is the
copyright symbol.
So,
at the end, I'm going to type an
ampersand,
copy,
and a semicolon.
Now, take a
Here's our copyright symbol, beautiful.
Now, we have so many entities in HTML
and quite frankly, you don't need to
memorize any of them. In fact, you're
not going to use 99% of them. But in
case you're curious, let me show you the
complete list. So, on Google search for
HTML entities
and on the second link, dev.w3.org,
you can see the complete list of these
entities.
So, as you can see, there are so many
entities and honestly, I have never used
any of them.
The only ones I have used are these
three plus non-breaking space. Let me
show you what that is about. So, I'm
going to delete this line
and generate some dummy text. So, we add
a paragraph element. Now, to generate
some dummy text, we type lorem followed
by the number of words we want to
generate. Let's say 50. Tab.
Look, this is some dummy text in Latin.
Now, let's preview it in the browser.
So, here's what we get. Let's imagine
that the last word on the first line
and the first word on the second line
should be stick together. Here we have a
line break in between these two words.
We want to prevent that. So, I'm going
to copy this word.
Now,
here in VS Code, let's bring up the
search panel by pressing command and F
on Mac or control and F on Windows.
Now, we paste this word.
Okay, here it is. We want to make sure
that these two words are always
together. There's no line break in
between them. So, I'm going to replace
this regular space with a non-breaking
space, which is an HTML entity. So, we
type an ampersand
and nbsp, which is short for
non-breaking space, followed by
semicolon.
Now, take a look.
So, both these words
are on the second line.
So, this is all about HTML entities.
Next, we're going to talk about links.
Almost every web page on the internet
has links to other pages or websites. To
create these links, we use the anchor
element. So, we type A, that is short
for anchor, and then press tab.
Now, every anchor element should have an
href attribute. Href is short for
hypertext reference. I know, it's a
mouthful. It basically means a URL or a
link. So, for this demo, I'm going to
create a second page called about.html
and then link to it over here. So, in
the explorer panel,
let's add a new page
called about.html.
Now, here we're going to create a basic
HTML boilerplate. Remember how to do
that?
We type an exclamation mark and then
press tab.
That's it. Beautiful.
Now, back to index.html.
Here, we can use a relative or an
absolute URL. What do you mean by that?
Well, a relative URL starts from the
current page. So, currently we are on
index.html and we want to go to
about.html.
Now, currently both these pages are in
the same folder.
So, we can type a relative URL to
about.html like this. about.html.
That's a relative URL.
Now, what if about.html was in a
different folder? So,
let's add a new folder to our project
called company
and then move about
to this folder.
Now, where is about.html relative to the
current page? It's inside the company
folder, right? So, here we type company
about.html.
This is a relative URL.
Now, let's give this link a text. I'm
going to say about me. So, we type our
text inside the anchor element, okay?
Save the changes.
Back to the browser.
Here's our link. Click
and we're currently on the about page,
which is empty. Beautiful.
Now, back to our home page. Instead of a
text, we can also use an image. So, I'm
going to delete about me
and add an image element. So, img tab.
Once again, here we can type a relative
URL to our target image. So, I'm going
to go with images/mosh.jpg.
Now, save.
Take a look. Obviously, this image is
way too big. We can always use CSS to
resize it. But, that aside, look at the
mouse icon
when we hover over this image. It
changed to a hand to indicate that this
image is clickable. Okay?
Now, back to our code. To keep things
simple, I'm going to get rid of this
image and get back to our text about me.
Now, let's go to the about page and add
a link back to the home page. So,
over here,
we're going to add
an anchor element.
What should we type for the href
attribute? Well, currently, we are
inside the company folder. We have to go
one level up so we can access
index.html, right? To do that, we type
double periods and a forward slash. With
this, we can go one level up. Now, at
this level, which is the root of our
website, we have the company folder, the
images folder, and index.html. So, we
can reference index.html.
And, for the text, we're going to say
home page. Again, this is another
example of a relative URL because it
starts from the current page and go
somewhere else. Now, if you're inside a
deeply nested folder structure, we might
have to go multiple levels up. So,
double period and a forward slash, then
we repeat and repeat. With this, we can
go three levels up. Now, as you can see,
URLs like this kind of look messy. They
look hard to read. In those cases, we
can use an absolute URL. So, we start
with a forward slash and this represents
the root of our website. At this level
we have access to index.html.
So this is an absolute URL, okay?
Now, back to index.html,
here we are linking to an HTML document,
but we can also link to non-HTML
documents like images, PDFs,
PowerPoints, and so on. So, let's add a
link to my image. So, for the href I'm
going to say images/mosh.jpg.
And for the text I'm going to say my
photo.
Save.
Take a look. So, here's our second link.
Click.
My image is displayed in the browser.
But what if I want to prompt the user to
download it? That's very easy.
We're going to add the download
attribute to our anchor element. So, we
type download, press enter.
Now, this attribute doesn't have a
value, so we can remove the double
quotes and the equal sign.
So, we just add the attribute name. Now,
save.
Back to the browser.
We go back.
Here we have to manually refresh the
page because the live server only
refreshes the current page. Now,
previously we were on my image, so that
was the URL that live server refreshed.
So, here we refresh
to get the latest changes. Now, when I
click on this link, instead of seeing my
image, we're going to see my image
getting downloaded. Take a look. Click,
and here's my image. Beautiful.
Now, we can also link to other parts of
this page. So, let's create two sections
with a lot of text. So, I'm going to add
an H2 element. Of course, I missed the
H1, but let's not worry about it. For
this H2 we're going to say HTML.
And below that we're going to add some
dummy text with 200 words. So,
paragraph, Lorem 200.
Good. Now, right after that we're going
to add another H2 for the CSS section
with some more text.
Okay?
Let's save the changes.
Take a look.
As you can see, the CSS section is below
the fold. So, we have to scroll down to
see it.
What we can do here
is on the top we can add a link to the
CSS section. So, when the user clicks on
that, they will immediately jump to the
CSS section. That is very easy.
So, here's the CSS section. First, we
have to give this element a unique
identifier. Just like everyone in the
real world can have a unique identifier
like a driver's license or a passport,
every element on a page can also have a
unique identifier.
So, here I'm going to set the ID
attribute to CSS.
Or we can use a more descriptive name
like section
CSS.
The name doesn't really matter here.
What matters is that we're defining what
is called a fragment or a place on this
page.
Now, we're going to add a link to this
fragment. So, on the top,
let's add another anchor element.
Now, for the href, we're going to type a
pound sign followed by the name of our
fragment, which is section  CSS.
And for the text we're going to say CSS.
Now,
back to the browser, take a look. I'm
going to click on this.
We immediately jump to the CSS section.
Beautiful.
Now, a lot of websites like this also
have a link that helps you jump to the
top of the page. Let's see how we can
create that.
So, after the CSS section,
I'm going to add another anchor element.
Now, for the href, I'm going to use an
empty fragment. So, we just type a pound
sign without an identifier.
And then we'll say jump to top.
Take a look. So,
here's our link. Click, and now we're on
top of the page. Now, let's see how we
can link to external websites.
So, let's add another anchor element to
link to Google.
Now, what should we type here? Well,
google.com is a different website. So,
here we cannot use a relative URL. We
have to use an absolute URL.
But, if you start with a forward slash,
we're referencing the root of our
website. But, in this case, we want to
go to a different website. How can we do
that? Well, we have to start with a
protocol. So, https colon
two forward slashes google.com.
Now, let's type Google
and test our page.
Click.
We're on Google, beautiful. Now,
sometimes, when linking to external
website, we want that link to open in a
new browser window or a new tab. Let me
show you how to do that. So,
here's our anchor.
We set the target attribute to underline
blank.
Save.
Now,
back to the home page. Once again, we
have to manually refresh to get the
latest changes.
Okay? Now, when I click on Google,
you see a new tab, beautiful. And one
last thing.
We can also link to emails. So, I'm
going to add an anchor.
And for href, I'm going to say mailto
colon
programming
withmosh@gmail.com.
Email me.
Save the changes.
Now, back to our page. When I click on
this link, my mail client will open and
my email address will be pre-populated.
Take a look. So, click
and here's my mail client.
So, this is all about links. Now, one
last thing before we finish this lesson.
What is the difference between and
hyperlink? Well, a link is just an
address, a URL, the location of the
target page. A hyperlink is the element
that the user can click on to navigate
to that target page. That is the
difference between a link and a
hyperlink. But, quite often, these terms
are used interchangeably.
All right, we're done with this lesson.
Next, we're going to talk about images.
All All now let's talk about embedding
images in a bit more detail.
For this lesson, I'm going to grab an
image from unsplash.com, which is where
we can find a lot of beautiful and
freely usable images.
So, let's search for coffee.
There are tons of coffee pictures here.
I'm going to grab
this picture.
We can download it for free.
Now look, this image comes in different
sizes, small, medium, and large. For
now, we're going to grab this image in
small size, but in the future, we're
going to talk about embedding images at
different sizes depending on the device.
So, on mobile devices, we want to serve
a smaller image, and on desktop
computers, we want to serve a larger
image. For now, let's not worry about
these complexities. We'll have a
complete section on this topic later on.
So, let's download the small image.
Now it says, "Say thank you to Nathan."
Thanks, Nathan. This is a beautiful
picture. You have done a great job.
Now I'm going to drag and drop this
image onto the images folder,
and then rename it to coffee.
We want to give it a descriptive name.
This is a small search engine
optimization tip. When we provide
descriptive names for our images, search
engines can better understand and index
our pages, okay?
So, here's our image. Now,
let's add an image element.
We set the source to images/coffee.jpg.
Now, what about the alt attribute? Well,
I briefly mentioned that we use this
attribute to provide textual description
of the image. It's not compulsory, but
it's highly recommended for a number of
reasons. The first reason is to make our
page accessible to visually impaired
people. These people use a screen reader
to read the web out to them. So, with
this alternative text, we can tell them
what we are showing on the page. And
that means we should write a good,
meaningful description here, like a
coffee mug
on a table.
Don't write something like image or
image one. That is pointless.
Now, the second benefit of providing an
alternative text is that we help search
engines read this text and understand
what we're providing here. And there's
one more benefit.
If this image cannot be loaded for some
reason, the alternative text is shown.
Let me show you what I mean. So, I'm
going to add a typo here.
Now,
back to the browser. Look,
the image is not loaded, but we see the
alternative text. This can also happen
if there is a network connectivity
issue. If the user gets disconnected,
they can still see the alternative text.
So, let's remove the typo.
Now, let's talk about sizing images. As
I told you before, we can use CSS to
resize our images. So, here in the head
section,
let's add a style element
and apply a rule to our image.
Now, this rule is applied to all images
on the page. This is probably not
something we want to do in a real-world
scenario. In a real-world scenario, we
want to apply a class to this element
and then define rules for that class.
We'll talk about this in more detail in
the future.
So, for now,
let's give this image a width of 200
pixels and a height of 200 pixels.
Now,
there is a tiny problem in our image.
Can you tell?
Our image is kind of squashed. Here's
the reason.
We're dealing with a rectangular image.
Look, this is a rectangular image, but
we're converting it to a square image.
Now, look at the shape of this coffee
mug. It's kind of round, right? Now,
compare it with
what we have over here. Our image is
vertically squashed. Let me show you
another way to verify this.
We can right-click on the image
and then go to inspect.
This opens Chrome DevTools and selects
our image in the DOM.
Now, on the right side, we can see the
styles that we applied to this element.
Now, I'm going to disable the height
property
and I want you to pay close attention to
the image and see how the shape changes.
So, look.
Now, the coffee mug is more round, but
if I apply the height property,
it becomes squashed.
So, how can we solve this problem? Well,
we have a new property in CSS called
object-fit.
So, here we can set object-fit to one of
these values. Most of the time we use
cover,
so the image covers its containing box.
What is this containing box? Well,
first let me set this to cover.
Here we have this image element, right?
Conceptually, there is a box around
every element in an HTML document. We
don't see this box, but the browser uses
that box to figure out how the page
should be displayed. So, here we have a
box with this dimension, 200 by 200. And
in this box we're trying to insert this
image, right?
Now, when we set object-fit to cover,
our image will get resized and
potentially cropped so it covers the
entire containing box. Let's verify
this. So, save the changes and back in
the browser, look, our coffee mug is
round, but if I disable the object-fit
property,
it gets squashed again.
So, object-fit is a very useful
property.
Now, we can always play with all
possible values over here. So, I'm going
to select this,
delete it.
Now, using the up and down arrows,
we can go through this list and see the
impact of every value. Now, I'm not
going to go over all these values and
explain what they mean. This is
pointless. You can always figure them
out on your own. Just remember that most
of the time
we use cover, so the image covers the
entire containing box.
All right, this is all about the images
for now. Next, we're going to talk about
video and audio.
Hey guys, Mosh here. I just wanted to
let you know that this video you've been
watching is the first hour of my
ultimate HTML and CSS series. So, after
you watch this video, if you want to
learn more from me, you can enroll in
the full course, which is about 13 hours
long and covers everything you need to
know to build professional quality
websites with HTML and CSS. It also
includes summary notes, exercises, a
real project, a certificate of
completion you can add to your resume,
and a 30-day money-back guarantee to get
a refund if you're not satisfied. So,
you have nothing to lose and a lot to
learn. So, if you're interested, I put
the link in the description box.